.TH "sunrise\-siren\-studio" 1 "18 Dec 2025" "v2.2.0" "Sunrise Siren Studio"
.SH "NAME"
Sunrise Siren Studio \- Control program for Sunrise Siren 3000

.SH "SYNOPSIS"
sunrise-siren-studio

.SH "REQUIREMENTS"
The most important requirement to use Sunrise Siren Studio, is a Sunrise Siren 3000: the most epic NeoPixel based alarm clock!

.SH "COMPOSITION"
As of v2.0.0, Sunrise Siren Studio is composed out of a toolbar at the top and six different menus.

.SS Toolbar
The toolbar is visible on any menu, and consists of the following items:
.TP
\- A home button, available in any menu except the main menu, to take the user to the main menu.
.TP
\- A label that is happy to tell you that you are connected to a Sunrise Siren 3000, including its hostname.
.TP
\- A button to set the Sunrise Siren 3000 to sleep mode.
.TP
\- A button to reboot the ESP32 inside the Sunrise Siren 3000.
.TP
\- A 'universal confirm' button. Its action depends on the menu you are in:
.TP
    \- In the Colors, Alarms and Settings menu, it will update changes made in these menus.
.br
They are all bundled in one request, so changes made in the Colors menu will be updated when saving in the Alarms menu, for example.
.TP
    \- In the Countdown menu, it will start the countdown.
.TP
    \- In the Custom Mode menu, it will apply the custom made digits.
.TP
    \- In other menus, this button is disabled. The keyboard shortcut will display a notification in this case.

.SS Colors
In Sunrise Siren Studio, two colors can be configured:
.TP
\- The default color. This color is used basically everywhere on the Sunrise Siren 3000.
.TP
\- The highlight color. This color is used during alarms, countdown endings or when configuring an alarm time on the Sunrise Siren 3000.

.SS Alarms
For every day in the week, an alarm can be configured. Just tell whether it should be enabled, and if so, the time.
.TP
When starting Sunrise Siren Studio, the first scheduled alarm is highlighted. The highlight disappears after saving.

.SS Countdown
Set a countdown clock on your Sunrise Siren 3000!
.TP
\- To start a countdown, enter how long the countdown should last and click the 'universal confirm' button.
.TP
\- Additionally, allow pausing/resuming the countdown with a button press.
.TP
\- As of v2.0.0, countdowns can be displayed in two formats, mm:ss and ssss.
.TP
\- In mm:ss notation, the countdown time is limited to 5999 seconds, otherwise it is limited to 9999 seconds.

.SS Custom mode
Even better than a countdown: the ability to make your Sunrise Siren 3000 display whatever you want!
.TP
\- Colors are customizable for every digit and for the colon point.
.br
\fBHint:\fR right clicking the color of a digit applies its color to all other color buttons. Right clicking the colon color changes it to black.
.TP
\- For every digit, most numbers and letters can be selected, but there is also a custom digit generator available.
.TP
\- To apply your custom creation, click the 'universal confirm' button.

.SS Settings
Miscellaneous settings:
.TP
\- Enable leading zero in clock and countdown (example: 7:55 if disabled, 07:55 if enabled).
.TP
\- Enable daylight savings time (if enabled, the clock skips 1 hour forward).
.TP
\- Buzzer duty cycle (percentage of one second where the highlight color and buzzer are active during an alarm or countdown end).
.br
Allowed values: 25% - 90%
.TP
\- Snooze interval (time between pushing the snooze button and the alarm starting again).
.br
Allowed values: 10s - 900s
.TP
\- Always return to clock after the specified time when visiting the temperature, humidity and alarm preview.
.br
Allowed values: 5s - 3600s
.TP
\- LDR mapping boundaries (the LDR value will be constrained between these before being mapped to the NeoPixel brightness).
.br
Allowed values: 0 - 4096
.TP
\- Change Sunrise Siren 3000 credentials. This will change the login username and password \fBof the clock itself\fR.
.br
Be careful with this, this will erase the current credentials forever!
.TP
\- Reset Sunrise Siren Studio credentials. This will remove the hostname, username and password from dconf, \fBonly on this machine\fR.
.br
Be careful with this as well!

.SS Information
Some wonderful information:
.TP
\- Firmware version of the Sunrise Siren 3000.
.br
Note that there is a main version (on the left of the dot) and a subversion (on the right of the dot).
.TP
    \- The main version belongs to a specific version of Sunrise Siren Studio. If these versions do not match, Sunrise Siren Studio will not start.
.TP
    \- The subversion is meant for minor firmware fixes. Sunrise Siren Studio does not validate the subversion anywhere.
.TP
\- NeoPixel brightness. This one is quite self explanatory. 0 means that the Sunrise Siren 3000 is in sleep mode.
.TP
\- LDR value. The raw value that the ESP32 reads from the LDR. 0 in broad daylight, 4095 in near total darkness.
.TP
\- SHT21 temperature value. The raw and mapped value that the ESP32 reads from the SHT21 sensor.
.TP
\- SHT21 humidity value. The raw and mapped value that the ESP32 reads from the SHT21 sensor.
.TP
\- A beautiful dialog showing very interesting information about Sunrise Siren Studio.
.TP
\- And finally, button that will bring you to the fabulous GitHub page.

.SH "KEYBINDS"
In Sunrise Siren Studio, the following keybinds can be used:
.TP
\fBEsc\fR
.br
Return to main menu.
.TP
\fBCtrl+R\fR
.br
Reboot the Sunrise Siren 3000.
.TP
\fBCtrl+Shift+R\fR
.br
Reboot Sunrise Siren Studio.
.TP
\fBCtrl+W\fR
.br
Close Sunrise Siren Studio.
.TP
\fBCtrl+S\fR
.br
Same as clicking the 'universal confirm' button. If disabled, a notification will be displayed.
.PP

.SH "AUTHOR"
Sunrise Siren Studio and the ESP32 firmware are proudly made by ngkon.

.SH "BUGS"
Bugs in both Sunrise Siren Studio and the ESP32 firmware can be reported on the dedicated GitHub page:
.PP
https://github.com/ngkon6/SunriseSiren3000/issues

.SH "COPYRIGHT"
© 2025 ngkon. All rights reserved. The Sunrise Siren project is licensed under the GNU General Public License v3.
